src/doc/rustc-dev-guide/src/diag.md, before:

# Emitting Diagnostics

A lot of effort has been put into making `rustc` have great error messages.
This chapter is about how to emit compile errors and lints from the compiler.

## `Span`

[`Span`][span] is the primary data structure in `rustc` used to represent a
location in the code being compiled. `Span`s are attached to most constructs in
HIR and MIR, allowing for more informative error reporting.

[span]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/codemap/struct.Span.html

A `Span` can be looked up in a [`CodeMap`][codemap] to get a "snippet" useful
for displaying errors with [`span_to_snippet`][sptosnip] and other similar
methods on the `CodeMap`.

[codemap]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/codemap/struct.CodeMap.html
[sptosnip]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/codemap/struct.CodeMap.html#method.span_to_snippet

## Error messages

The [`rustc_errors`][errors] crate defines most of the utilities used for
reporting errors.

[errors]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/index.html

[`Session`][session] and [`ParseSess`][parsesses] have
methods (or fields with methods) that allow reporting errors. These methods
usually have names like `span_err` or `struct_span_err` or `span_warn`, etc...
There are lots of them; they emit different types of "errors", such as
warnings, errors, fatal errors, suggestions, etc.

[parsesses]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/parse/struct.ParseSess.html
[session]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/session/struct.Session.html

In general, there are two class of such methods: ones that emit an error
directly and ones that allow finer control over what to emit. For example,
[`span_err`][spanerr] emits the given error message at the given `Span`, but
[`struct_span_err`][strspanerr] instead returns a
[`DiagnosticBuilder`][diagbuild].

`DiagnosticBuilder` allows you to add related notes and suggestions to an error
before emitting it by calling the [`emit`][emit] method. (Failing to either
emit or [cancel][cancel] a `DiagnosticBuilder` will result in an ICE.) See the
[docs][diagbuild] for more info on what you can do.

[spanerr]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/session/struct.Session.html#method.span_err
[strspanerr]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/session/struct.Session.html#method.struct_span_err
[diagbuild]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/diagnostic_builder/struct.DiagnosticBuilder.html
[emit]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/diagnostic_builder/struct.DiagnosticBuilder.html#method.emit
[cancel]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/struct.Diagnostic.html#method.cancel

```rust,ignore
// Get a DiagnosticBuilder. This does _not_ emit an error yet.
let mut err = sess.struct_span_err(sp, "oh no! this is an error!");

// In some cases, you might need to check if `sp` is generated by a macro to
// avoid printing weird errors about macro-generated code.

if let Ok(snippet) = sess.codemap().span_to_snippet(sp) {
    // Use the snippet to generate a suggested fix
    err.span_suggestion(suggestion_sp, "try using a qux here", format!("qux {}", snip));
} else {
    // If we weren't able to generate a snippet, then emit a "help" message
    // instead of a concrete "suggestion". In practice this is unlikely to be
    // reached.
    err.span_help(suggestion_sp, "you could use a qux here instead");
}

// emit the error
err.emit();
```

## Suggestions

We would like to make edition transitions as smooth as possible. To that end,
[`rustfix`][rustfix] can use compiler suggestions to automatically fix
code. For example, we could use `rustfix` to mechanically apply the `qux`
suggestion from the previous example. However, not all suggestions are
mechanically applicable.  We use the
[`span_suggestion_with_applicability`][sswa] method of `DiagnosticBuilder` to
inform the emitter of whether a suggestion is mechanically applicable or not.
This information, in turn, is outputed by rustc when the error format is
`json`, which is used by `rustfix`.

[rustfix]: https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rustfix/
[sswa]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/struct.DiagnosticBuilder.html#method.span_suggestion_with_applicability

For example, to make our `qux` suggestion machine-applicable, we would do:

```rust,ignore
let mut err = sess.struct_span_err(sp, "oh no! this is an error!");

if let Ok(snippet) = sess.codemap().span_to_snippet(sp) {
    // Add applicability info!
    err.span_suggestion_with_applicability(
        suggestion_sp,
        "try using a qux here",
        format!("qux {}", snip),
        Applicability::MachineApplicable,
    );
} else {
    err.span_help(suggestion_sp, "you could use a qux here instead");
}

err.emit();
```

This might emit an error like

```console
$ rustc mycode.rs
error[E0999]: oh no! this is an error!
 --> mycode.rs:3:5
  |
3 |     sad()
  |     ^ help: try using a qux here: `qux sad()`

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0999`.
```

In some cases, like when the suggestion spans multiple lines or when there are
multiple suggestions, the suggestions are displayed on their own:

```console
error[E0999]: oh no! this is an error!
 --> mycode.rs:3:5
  |
3 |     sad()
  |     ^
help: try using a qux here:
  |
3 |     qux sad()
  |     ^^^

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0999`.
```

There are a few other [`Applicability`][appl] possibilities:

- `MachineApplicable`: Can be applied mechanically.
- `HasPlaceholders`: Cannot be applied mechanically and has placeholder text in
  the suggestions. For example, "Try adding a type: \`let x: \<type\>\`".
- `MaybeIncorrect`: Cannot be applied mechanically because the suggestion may
  or may not be a good one.
- `Unspecified`: Cannot be applied mechanically because we don't know which
  of the above cases it falls into.

[appl]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/enum.Applicability.html

## Lints

The compiler linting infrastructure is defined in the [`rustc::lint`][rlint]
module.

[rlint]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/lint/index.html

### Declaring a lint

The built-in compiler lints are defined in the [`rustc_lint`][builtin]
crate.

[builtin]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_lint/index.html

Each lint is defined as a `struct` that implements the `LintPass` `trait`. The
trait implementation allows you to check certain syntactic constructs the
linter walks the source code. You can then choose to emit lints in a very
similar way to compile errors. Finally, you register the lint to actually get
it to be run by the compiler by using the `declare_lint!` macro.

For example, the following lint checks for uses
of `while true { ... }` and suggests using `loop { ... }` instead.

```rust,ignore
// Declare a lint called `WHILE_TRUE`
declare_lint! {
    WHILE_TRUE,

    // warn-by-default
    Warn,

    // This string is the lint description
    "suggest using `loop { }` instead of `while true { }`"
}

// Define a struct and `impl LintPass` for it.
#[derive(Copy, Clone)]
pub struct WhileTrue;

impl LintPass for WhileTrue {
    fn get_lints(&self) -> LintArray {
        lint_array!(WHILE_TRUE)
    }
}

// LateLintPass has lots of methods. We only override the definition of
// `check_expr` for this lint because that's all we need, but you could
// override other methods for your own lint. See the rustc docs for a full
// list of methods.
impl<'a, 'tcx> LateLintPass<'a, 'tcx> for WhileTrue {
    fn check_expr(&mut self, cx: &LateContext, e: &hir::Expr) {
        if let hir::ExprWhile(ref cond, ..) = e.node {
            if let hir::ExprLit(ref lit) = cond.node {
                if let ast::LitKind::Bool(true) = lit.node {
                    if lit.span.ctxt() == SyntaxContext::empty() {
                        let msg = "denote infinite loops with `loop { ... }`";
                        let condition_span = cx.tcx.sess.codemap().def_span(e.span);
                        let mut err = cx.struct_span_lint(WHILE_TRUE, condition_span, msg);
                        err.span_suggestion_short(condition_span, "use `loop`", "loop".to_owned());
                        err.emit();
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Edition-gated Lints

Sometimes we want to change the behavior of a lint in a new edition. To do this,
we just add the transition to our invocation of `declare_lint!`:

```rust,ignore
declare_lint! {
    pub ANONYMOUS_PARAMETERS,
    Allow,
    "detects anonymous parameters",
    Edition::Edition2018 => Warn,
}
```

This makes the `ANONYMOUS_PARAMETERS` lint allow-by-default in the 2015 edition
but warn-by-default in the 2018 edition.

Lints that represent an incompatibility (i.e. error) in the upcoming edition
should also be registered as `FutureIncompatibilityLint`s in
[`register_builtins`][rbuiltins] function in [`rustc_lint::lib`][builtin].

### Lint Groups

Lints can be turned on in groups. These groups are declared in the
[`register_builtins`][rbuiltins] function in [`rustc_lint::lib`][builtin]. The
`add_lint_group!` macro is used to declare a new group.

[rbuiltins]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_lint/fn.register_builtins.html

For example,

```rust,ignore
    add_lint_group!(sess,
                    "nonstandard_style",
                    NON_CAMEL_CASE_TYPES,
                    NON_SNAKE_CASE,
                    NON_UPPER_CASE_GLOBALS);
```

This defines the `nonstandard_style` group which turns on the listed lints. A
user can turn on these lints by using `!#[warn(nonstandard_style)]`.

Commit message:

mention lint-level command line flags as well as attributes

src/doc/rustc-dev-guide/src/diag.md, after:

# Emitting Diagnostics

A lot of effort has been put into making `rustc` have great error messages.
This chapter is about how to emit compile errors and lints from the compiler.

## `Span`

[`Span`][span] is the primary data structure in `rustc` used to represent a
location in the code being compiled. `Span`s are attached to most constructs in
HIR and MIR, allowing for more informative error reporting.

[span]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/codemap/struct.Span.html

A `Span` can be looked up in a [`CodeMap`][codemap] to get a "snippet" useful
for displaying errors with [`span_to_snippet`][sptosnip] and other similar
methods on the `CodeMap`.

[codemap]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/codemap/struct.CodeMap.html
[sptosnip]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/codemap/struct.CodeMap.html#method.span_to_snippet

## Error messages

The [`rustc_errors`][errors] crate defines most of the utilities used for
reporting errors.

[errors]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/index.html

[`Session`][session] and [`ParseSess`][parsesses] have
methods (or fields with methods) that allow reporting errors. These methods
usually have names like `span_err` or `struct_span_err` or `span_warn`, etc...
There are lots of them; they emit different types of "errors", such as
warnings, errors, fatal errors, suggestions, etc.

[parsesses]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/syntax/parse/struct.ParseSess.html
[session]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/session/struct.Session.html

In general, there are two class of such methods: ones that emit an error
directly and ones that allow finer control over what to emit. For example,
[`span_err`][spanerr] emits the given error message at the given `Span`, but
[`struct_span_err`][strspanerr] instead returns a
[`DiagnosticBuilder`][diagbuild].

`DiagnosticBuilder` allows you to add related notes and suggestions to an error
before emitting it by calling the [`emit`][emit] method. (Failing to either
emit or [cancel][cancel] a `DiagnosticBuilder` will result in an ICE.) See the
[docs][diagbuild] for more info on what you can do.

[spanerr]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/session/struct.Session.html#method.span_err
[strspanerr]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/session/struct.Session.html#method.struct_span_err
[diagbuild]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/diagnostic_builder/struct.DiagnosticBuilder.html
[emit]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/diagnostic_builder/struct.DiagnosticBuilder.html#method.emit
[cancel]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/struct.Diagnostic.html#method.cancel

```rust,ignore
// Get a DiagnosticBuilder. This does _not_ emit an error yet.
let mut err = sess.struct_span_err(sp, "oh no! this is an error!");

// In some cases, you might need to check if `sp` is generated by a macro to
// avoid printing weird errors about macro-generated code.

if let Ok(snippet) = sess.codemap().span_to_snippet(sp) {
    // Use the snippet to generate a suggested fix
    err.span_suggestion(suggestion_sp, "try using a qux here", format!("qux {}", snip));
} else {
    // If we weren't able to generate a snippet, then emit a "help" message
    // instead of a concrete "suggestion". In practice this is unlikely to be
    // reached.
    err.span_help(suggestion_sp, "you could use a qux here instead");
}

// emit the error
err.emit();
```

## Suggestions

We would like to make edition transitions as smooth as possible. To that end,
[`rustfix`][rustfix] can use compiler suggestions to automatically fix
code. For example, we could use `rustfix` to mechanically apply the `qux`
suggestion from the previous example. However, not all suggestions are
mechanically applicable.  We use the
[`span_suggestion_with_applicability`][sswa] method of `DiagnosticBuilder` to
inform the emitter of whether a suggestion is mechanically applicable or not.
This information, in turn, is outputed by rustc when the error format is
`json`, which is used by `rustfix`.

[rustfix]: https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rustfix/
[sswa]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/struct.DiagnosticBuilder.html#method.span_suggestion_with_applicability

For example, to make our `qux` suggestion machine-applicable, we would do:

```rust,ignore
let mut err = sess.struct_span_err(sp, "oh no! this is an error!");

if let Ok(snippet) = sess.codemap().span_to_snippet(sp) {
    // Add applicability info!
    err.span_suggestion_with_applicability(
        suggestion_sp,
        "try using a qux here",
        format!("qux {}", snip),
        Applicability::MachineApplicable,
    );
} else {
    err.span_help(suggestion_sp, "you could use a qux here instead");
}

err.emit();
```

This might emit an error like

```console
$ rustc mycode.rs
error[E0999]: oh no! this is an error!
 --> mycode.rs:3:5
  |
3 |     sad()
  |     ^ help: try using a qux here: `qux sad()`

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0999`.
```

In some cases, like when the suggestion spans multiple lines or when there are
multiple suggestions, the suggestions are displayed on their own:

```console
error[E0999]: oh no! this is an error!
 --> mycode.rs:3:5
  |
3 |     sad()
  |     ^
help: try using a qux here:
  |
3 |     qux sad()
  |     ^^^

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0999`.
```

There are a few other [`Applicability`][appl] possibilities:

- `MachineApplicable`: Can be applied mechanically.
- `HasPlaceholders`: Cannot be applied mechanically and has placeholder text in
  the suggestions. For example, "Try adding a type: \`let x: \<type\>\`".
- `MaybeIncorrect`: Cannot be applied mechanically because the suggestion may
  or may not be a good one.
- `Unspecified`: Cannot be applied mechanically because we don't know which
  of the above cases it falls into.

[appl]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_errors/enum.Applicability.html

## Lints

The compiler linting infrastructure is defined in the [`rustc::lint`][rlint]
module.

[rlint]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc/lint/index.html

### Declaring a lint

The built-in compiler lints are defined in the [`rustc_lint`][builtin]
crate.

[builtin]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_lint/index.html

Each lint is defined as a `struct` that implements the `LintPass` `trait`. The
trait implementation allows you to check certain syntactic constructs the
linter walks the source code. You can then choose to emit lints in a very
similar way to compile errors. Finally, you register the lint to actually get
it to be run by the compiler by using the `declare_lint!` macro.

For example, the following lint checks for uses
of `while true { ... }` and suggests using `loop { ... }` instead.

```rust,ignore
// Declare a lint called `WHILE_TRUE`
declare_lint! {
    WHILE_TRUE,

    // warn-by-default
    Warn,

    // This string is the lint description
    "suggest using `loop { }` instead of `while true { }`"
}

// Define a struct and `impl LintPass` for it.
#[derive(Copy, Clone)]
pub struct WhileTrue;

impl LintPass for WhileTrue {
    fn get_lints(&self) -> LintArray {
        lint_array!(WHILE_TRUE)
    }
}

// LateLintPass has lots of methods. We only override the definition of
// `check_expr` for this lint because that's all we need, but you could
// override other methods for your own lint. See the rustc docs for a full
// list of methods.
impl<'a, 'tcx> LateLintPass<'a, 'tcx> for WhileTrue {
    fn check_expr(&mut self, cx: &LateContext, e: &hir::Expr) {
        if let hir::ExprWhile(ref cond, ..) = e.node {
            if let hir::ExprLit(ref lit) = cond.node {
                if let ast::LitKind::Bool(true) = lit.node {
                    if lit.span.ctxt() == SyntaxContext::empty() {
                        let msg = "denote infinite loops with `loop { ... }`";
                        let condition_span = cx.tcx.sess.codemap().def_span(e.span);
                        let mut err = cx.struct_span_lint(WHILE_TRUE, condition_span, msg);
                        err.span_suggestion_short(condition_span, "use `loop`", "loop".to_owned());
                        err.emit();
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Edition-gated Lints

Sometimes we want to change the behavior of a lint in a new edition. To do this,
we just add the transition to our invocation of `declare_lint!`:

```rust,ignore
declare_lint! {
    pub ANONYMOUS_PARAMETERS,
    Allow,
    "detects anonymous parameters",
    Edition::Edition2018 => Warn,
}
```

This makes the `ANONYMOUS_PARAMETERS` lint allow-by-default in the 2015 edition
but warn-by-default in the 2018 edition.

Lints that represent an incompatibility (i.e. error) in the upcoming edition
should also be registered as `FutureIncompatibilityLint`s in
[`register_builtins`][rbuiltins] function in [`rustc_lint::lib`][builtin].

### Lint Groups

Lints can be turned on in groups. These groups are declared in the
[`register_builtins`][rbuiltins] function in [`rustc_lint::lib`][builtin]. The
`add_lint_group!` macro is used to declare a new group.

[rbuiltins]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly-rustc/rustc_lint/fn.register_builtins.html

For example,

```rust,ignore
    add_lint_group!(sess,
                    "nonstandard_style",
                    NON_CAMEL_CASE_TYPES,
                    NON_SNAKE_CASE,
                    NON_UPPER_CASE_GLOBALS);
```

This defines the `nonstandard_style` group which turns on the listed lints. A
user can turn on these lints with a `!#[warn(nonstandard_style)]` attribute in
the source code, or by passing `-W nonstandard-style` on the command line.
